# DB_NEA-Database-System
Construct a database system for NEA Airlines

Requirement:
* Construct an EER diagram for the client's specifications. The EER should contain all necessary information such as entities, attributes, primary keys, relationships (including specialization/union if any), cardinalities, and participation (including (min, max)). Any assumptions should also be stated clearly. 
* Transform the EER model to Relational tables, showing all the steps.
* Write create table statements to implement the tables in the ORACLE Relational DBMS. When creating tables make sure you choose appropriate data types for the attributes, specify any null/not null or other constraints whenever applicable, and specify the primary and foreign keys. Write at least one insert statement for each of your tables using realistic data. Make sure you take into consideration all the necessary constraints.
* Normalize the user views provided in Appendices A and B. Clearly show individual steps of UNF, INF, 2NF and 3NF for each of the user views. List the final tables. Discuss the differences between the result of the top-down approach and the result of the bottom-up approach. Provide some analysis (with examples) on why they are similar or different for this particular problem.

Specifications:
New Endor Airlines (NEA) is the premier aviation service in the small island nation of New Endor, located in the southwestern Pacific Ocean. For the 40 years since its inception, NEA has operated effectively with paper-based record keeping. Recently, New Endor has grown in popularity as a business and tourism destination. Due to increased demand for their services, NEA has decided to modernize their record keeping and automate much of their management activity. You have been contracted by NEA to design a new relational database that fits in with their current business practices. The database that you will design is focused on flight and aircraft management and is described in full here. Ticket billing, advertising and other business activities are handled in different databases that you will not be dealing with.

NEA operates local and international flights. Being small and somewhat geographically isolated, all international flights from New Endor are classified as long-haul, and all local flights are classified as short-haul. Flights are identified by a unique 9-digit flight identifier. The last 3 digits of the flight identifier are referred to as the flight number. Passengers are given only the flight number (e.g., a ticket reads flight number NE370), and the airline ensures that no two flights with the same flight number are in the air simultaneously. Flight details that are recorded include the intended departure date and time, route information (including departure and arrival locations), passenger/ticket and staff details, and details about the aircraft being operated.

Each aircraft is given a unique aircraft number and classified into one of two types according to which type of flight they are used for: short-haul or long-haul. For short-haul aircraft, NEA dedicates some cargo space to mail transport, so the dedicated mail cargo capacity is stored (though other details regarding mail will be handled in a different database). For long-haul aircraft, extra medical supplies are required, so they record the number of advanced medical packs and the number of defibrillators on board. Each aircraft belongs to an aircraft model, which is also retained in the database along with basic model information such as the unique model identifier, number of economy class seats, business class seats, first class seats, the cargo capacity, fuel capacity, length, and wingspan. The airline often purchases more than one of each aircraft model.

Each flight travels along one strictly defined route. Each route has a unique route identifier, route description, departure location and arrival location. A location is defined as a local or international airport, having a unique 3 letter airport code (issued by the International Air Transport Association). Additional location information includes the country, address and contact details of the airport. There can be more than one route from/to any location, and a route can be reused for multiple different flights. Aside from choosing the route, flight planners must take fuel consumption, weather conditions and air traffic into account. So, when choosing the route, the planned average speed, average height, estimated journey duration (in minutes) and estimated fuel consumption must be specified for each flight.

Each flight ticket is for only one customer and only one flight. When a customer buys a flight ticket, NEA assigns them a unique customer number and collects a number of details (see Appendix A) for flight management. The passenger’s name, home address, home country, birth date, passport number (if held), email and phone number are kept on file. For the particular flight, NEA assigns a unique ticket number to the passenger and also records the passenger’s checked luggage limit (in kilograms), seat number, flight class code (economy ‘E’, business ‘B’ or first class ‘F’), as well as a short description of any food allergies or medical conditions that the passenger may have. The details of a ticket are only generated once the customer purchases it, and ticket availability is determined by the number of seats on the aircraft model. For each flight, passengers may choose either a regular in-flight meal or the alternative option which is both vegan and gluten free. Other ticket details such as invoices, advertising and pricing are handled on a separate database. Customer, ticket, and flight details are all kept on the database indefinitely after a flight.

Each flight has at least two pilots on board: the flight captain and the first officer. The captain has ultimate responsibility for everything that happens during the flight. During each flight, the captain makes a single entry in the Captain’s Log, recording the actual time and date of departure and arrival, as well as a short description of each irregular event that occurred during flight (see Appendix B). The First Officer (FO) is second in command and so, like the captain, the FO is distinguished from any additional pilots that may be on board. To keep a record of pilot activities, NEA assigns a short two letter ‘activity code’ for each additional pilot on board each flight (aside from the captain and the FO). This code categorizes the reason that the pilot was on board (e.g., ‘TR’ signifies training). When a pilot is hired by NEA, they are given a staff number, and their total hours of prior flight experience are recorded, along with their name, address, email, phone number, passport number (as all NEA flight staff must have a passport), and a list of qualifications/licenses held. The other type of staff to be covered by the database are flight attendants. When hired by the NEA, flight attendants, like pilots, are issued with a staff number, and their name, address, email, phone number and passport number are recorded. It is possible that an NEA employee could be both a flight attendant and an airline pilot (it is not uncommon for NEA pilots in training to work as flight attendants between training flights).

Appendix:
* Appendix A: Passenger Flight Form
* Appendix B: Flight Captain's Log
